README.md, before:

# Formula 1 - Telemetry with Apache Kafka

This project aims to use Apache Kafka in order to ingest Formula 1 telemetry data from the F1 2020 game (by CodeMasters) running on Microsoft Xbox.
It uses different products, projects and technologies:

* **[F1 2020 game (by CodeMasters)](https://www.codemasters.com/game/f1-2020/)** for getting the telemetry data via UDP;
* **[Apache Camel](https://camel.apache.org/)** project for routing telemetry events from UDP to Apache Kafka and to InfluxDB;
* **[Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/)** as the core project for ingesting the telemetry events on different topics;
* **[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)** for deploying most of the components to run in the cloud;
* **[Strimzi](https://strimzi.io/)** for deploying easily the Apache Kafka on Kubernetes;
* **[InfluxDB](https://www.influxdata.com/)** for storing the telemetry time series as data source for dashboards;
* **[Grafana](https://grafana.com/)** for providing dashboards showing the real time telemetry data;  

![Logo](./images/f1-telemetry-kafka-logo.png)

## Overview

Following an overall picture of how these technologies are used together.
A short introduction video is available [here](https://youtu.be/Re9LOAYZi2A). 

![Overview](./images/overview.png)

### F1 2020 Xbox UDP to Kafka

In order to ingest the telemetry events into Apache Kafka, the Apache Camel project is used with:

* a route getting the raw UDP packets from the F1 2020 game (by CodeMasters) on Microsoft Xbox and dispatching these events to three more routes;
    * a route just forwarding the raw UDP packets to a corresponding Apache Kafka topic;
    * a route to filter only the `EVENT` type raw UDP packets and forwarding them to a corresponding Apache Kafka topic;
    * a route to aggregate the raw UDP packets data for producing drivers related data and forwarding them to a corresponding Apache Kafka topic;

![UDP to Kafka](./images/f1-telemetry-udp-kafka.png)

### Kafka to InfluxDB

In order to provide the telemetry data to Grafana dashboards, InfluxDB is used as data source and the telemetry events are stored through Apache Camel with:

* a route getting drivers related data for storing telemetry, motion and car status data;
* a route getting the `EVENT` type raw UDP packets for storing fastest lap and speedtrap events;

![Kafka to InfluxDB](./images/f1-telemetry-kafka-influxdb.png)

## Repository structure

Contains different components for ingesting and handling Formula 1 2020 game (by CodeMasters) telemetry data through Apache Kafka.

* **f1-telemetry-udp-kafka**: Apache Camel application bridging the telemetry packets got on UDP from the Formula 1 2020 game to Apache Kafka to different topics:
    * _f1-telemetry-packets_ contains the raw `Packet`(s);
    * _f1-telemetry-events_ contains only the raw `Packet`(s) of `EVENT` type;
    * _f1-telemetry-drivers_ contains the `Driver` messages as result of aggregating `Packet`(s) in the same frame with telemetry data for all drivers;
* **f1-telemetry-consumer**: Apache Kafka client application consuming `Driver` messages from Apache Kafka;
* **f1-telemetry-streams**: Apache Kafka Streams API based application getting raw `Packet`(s) and processing in real time;
* **f1-telemetry-common**: common library providing model classes and related Apache Kafka serializer/deserializer;
* **f1-telemetry-kafka-influxdb**: Apache Camel application writing driver/car's telemetry data  to InfluxDB as time series; 
* **f1-telemetry-webui**: A sample Web application showing the race ranking in real time getting `Driver`(s) from Apache Kafka;
* **dashboard**: folder containing Grafana dashboard showing driver/car's telemetry data;
* **deployment**: folder containing Kubernetes deployments for all the provided applications;

The Formula 1 2020 game UDP packets specification is [here](https://forums.codemasters.com/topic/50942-f1-2020-udp-specification/).
The library used for decoding the packets is [here](https://github.com/ppatierno/formula1-telemetry).

## Dashboards

The telemetry dashboard shows information like speed, engine (rpm), throttle and brake.

![Telemetry](./images/01-telemetry.png)

The motion dashboard shows information about the car in motion like the G-force.

![Motion](./images/02-motion.png)

The car status dashboard shows information mostly related to the status of each car, for example wings damages and fuel in tank.

![Car Status](./images/03-carstatus.png)

The events dashboard shows race events like max speed trap and fastest lap.

![Events](./images/04-events.png)

The driver dashboard allows to get data for a single driver, selecting one through the corresponding drop down list. 
It has a top bar with information about current lap, position, distance and lap times.

![Driver](./images/05-drivers.png)

It also has some graphs showing specific driver data related to throttle/brake, engine/speed and gear.

![Driver](./images/06-drivers.png)

## Build

In order to build all the components, just run the following command.

```shell
mvn package
```

If you want to run the applications as containers even locally or on Kubernetes, a [Google Jib](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib) configuration is available for building the corresponding Docker images.

```shell
mvn package jib:dockerBuild
```

The above command will build the Docker images locally; you have to push them to the registry you prefer manually.

Commit message:

Added image about tyres specific dashboard

README.md, after:

# Formula 1 - Telemetry with Apache Kafka

This project aims to use Apache Kafka in order to ingest Formula 1 telemetry data from the F1 2020 game (by CodeMasters) running on Microsoft Xbox.
It uses different products, projects and technologies:

* **[F1 2020 game (by CodeMasters)](https://www.codemasters.com/game/f1-2020/)** for getting the telemetry data via UDP;
* **[Apache Camel](https://camel.apache.org/)** project for routing telemetry events from UDP to Apache Kafka and to InfluxDB;
* **[Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/)** as the core project for ingesting the telemetry events on different topics;
* **[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)** for deploying most of the components to run in the cloud;
* **[Strimzi](https://strimzi.io/)** for deploying easily the Apache Kafka on Kubernetes;
* **[InfluxDB](https://www.influxdata.com/)** for storing the telemetry time series as data source for dashboards;
* **[Grafana](https://grafana.com/)** for providing dashboards showing the real time telemetry data;  

![Logo](./images/f1-telemetry-kafka-logo.png)

## Overview

Following an overall picture of how these technologies are used together.
A short introduction video is available [here](https://youtu.be/Re9LOAYZi2A). 

![Overview](./images/overview.png)

### F1 2020 Xbox UDP to Kafka

In order to ingest the telemetry events into Apache Kafka, the Apache Camel project is used with:

* a route getting the raw UDP packets from the F1 2020 game (by CodeMasters) on Microsoft Xbox and dispatching these events to three more routes;
    * a route just forwarding the raw UDP packets to a corresponding Apache Kafka topic;
    * a route to filter only the `EVENT` type raw UDP packets and forwarding them to a corresponding Apache Kafka topic;
    * a route to aggregate the raw UDP packets data for producing drivers related data and forwarding them to a corresponding Apache Kafka topic;

![UDP to Kafka](./images/f1-telemetry-udp-kafka.png)

### Kafka to InfluxDB

In order to provide the telemetry data to Grafana dashboards, InfluxDB is used as data source and the telemetry events are stored through Apache Camel with:

* a route getting drivers related data for storing telemetry, motion and car status data;
* a route getting the `EVENT` type raw UDP packets for storing fastest lap and speedtrap events;

![Kafka to InfluxDB](./images/f1-telemetry-kafka-influxdb.png)

## Repository structure

Contains different components for ingesting and handling Formula 1 2020 game (by CodeMasters) telemetry data through Apache Kafka.

* **f1-telemetry-udp-kafka**: Apache Camel application bridging the telemetry packets got on UDP from the Formula 1 2020 game to Apache Kafka to different topics:
    * _f1-telemetry-packets_ contains the raw `Packet`(s);
    * _f1-telemetry-events_ contains only the raw `Packet`(s) of `EVENT` type;
    * _f1-telemetry-drivers_ contains the `Driver` messages as result of aggregating `Packet`(s) in the same frame with telemetry data for all drivers;
* **f1-telemetry-consumer**: Apache Kafka client application consuming `Driver` messages from Apache Kafka;
* **f1-telemetry-streams**: Apache Kafka Streams API based application getting raw `Packet`(s) and processing in real time;
* **f1-telemetry-common**: common library providing model classes and related Apache Kafka serializer/deserializer;
* **f1-telemetry-kafka-influxdb**: Apache Camel application writing driver/car's telemetry data  to InfluxDB as time series; 
* **f1-telemetry-webui**: A sample Web application showing the race ranking in real time getting `Driver`(s) from Apache Kafka;
* **dashboard**: folder containing Grafana dashboard showing driver/car's telemetry data;
* **deployment**: folder containing Kubernetes deployments for all the provided applications;

The Formula 1 2020 game UDP packets specification is [here](https://forums.codemasters.com/topic/50942-f1-2020-udp-specification/).
The library used for decoding the packets is [here](https://github.com/ppatierno/formula1-telemetry).

## Dashboards

The telemetry dashboard shows information like speed, engine (rpm), throttle and brake.

![Telemetry](./images/01-telemetry.png)

The motion dashboard shows information about the car in motion like the G-force.

![Motion](./images/02-motion.png)

The car status dashboard shows information mostly related to the status of each car, for example wings damages and fuel in tank.

![Car Status](./images/03-carstatus.png)

The events dashboard shows race events like max speed trap and fastest lap.

![Events](./images/04-events.png)

The driver dashboard allows to get data for a single driver, selecting one through the corresponding drop down list. 
It has a top bar with information about current lap, position, distance and lap times.

![Driver](./images/05-drivers.png)

It also has some graphs showing specific driver data related to throttle/brake, engine/speed and gear.

![Driver](./images/06-drivers.png)

It also shows specific information about tyres as damage, wear and surface temperature.

![Driver](./images/07-drivers.png)

## Build

In order to build all the components, just run the following command.

```shell
mvn package
```

If you want to run the applications as containers even locally or on Kubernetes, a [Google Jib](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib) configuration is available for building the corresponding Docker images.

```shell
mvn package jib:dockerBuild
```

The above command will build the Docker images locally; you have to push them to the registry you prefer manually.
